in the previous video we talked about
the form of the hypothesis for linear
regression with multiple features with
multiple variables in this video let's
talk about how to fit the parameters of
that hypothesis in particular software
how to use gradient descent for linear
regression with multiple features to
quickly summarize our notation this is
our formal hypothesis in multivariate
linear regression where we adopted the
convention that x0 equals 1 all the
parameters of this model are theta 0
through theta n but instead of thinking
of this as n separate parameters which
is valid I'm instead going to think of
the parameters as theta where theta here
is a n plus 1 dimensional vector so I'm
just going to think of the parameter the
parameters of this model as itself being
a vector our cost function is J of theta
0 through theta n which is given by this
usual sum squared error term but again
instead instead of thinking of J as a
function of these n plus 1 numbers I'm
going to more commonly write J as just a
function of the parameter vector theta
so that theta here is a vector
here's what gradient descent looks like
we're going to repeatedly update each
parameter theta J according to the theta
J minus alpha times this derivative term
and once again and just write this as J
of theta so theta J's update to that
state AJ minus the learning rate alpha
times the yo derivative a partial
derivative of the cost function with
respect to the parameter theta J let's
see what this looks like when we
implement gradient descent and in
particular let's go see what that
partial derivative term looks like
here's what we have a gradient descent
for the case of when we had N equals one
feature we had two separate update rules
for the parameters theta zero and theta
one and hopefully these look familiar to
you and this term here was of course the
partial derivative of the cost function
with respect to the parameter theta zero
and similarly we had a different update
rule for the parameter theta one those
one little difference which is that when
we previously had only one feature we
would call that feature X I but now in
our new notation we would of course call
this X superscript I subscript one to
denote our one feature so that was four
we had only one feature let's look at
the new algorithm for we have more than
one feature when the number of features
n may be much larger than one we get
this update rule for gradient descent
and maybe for those of you that know
calculus if you take the definition of
the cost function and take the partial
derivative of the cost function J with
respect to the parameter theta J you
find that that partial derivative is
exactly that terms I've just drawn and
drawn the blue box around and if you
implement this you will get a working
implementation of gradient descent for
multivariate than aggression the last
thing I want to do on this slide is give
you a sense of why these some new and
old algorithms are you know sort of the
same thing or why they're both similar
algorithms why they both gradient
descent our
let's consider case where we have two
features or maybe more than two features
so we have three update rules for the
parameters theta0 theta1 theta2 and
maybe other values of theta as well if
you look at the update rule for theta 0
what you find is that this update rule
here is the same as the update rule that
we had previously for the case of N
equals 1 and the reason that they're
equivalent is of course because in a
notational convention we had this X 0
equals 1 Convention which is why these
two terms that I've drawn the magenta
boxes around are equivalent
similarly if you look at the update rule
for theta 1 you find that this term here
is equivalent to the term we previously
had of the equation the update where we
previously had for theta 1 where of
course we're just using this new
notation X subscript 1 to denote our new
notation for denoting the first feature
and now that we have more than one
feature we can have similar update rules
for for the other parameters like theta2
and so on there's a lot going on on the
slide so if so I definitely encourage
you if you need to to pause the video
and look at all the math on the slide
slowly to make sure you understand
everything that's going on here but um
if you implement the algorithm written
written up here then you will have a
working implementation of linear
regression with multiple features